150 of the latest AI use cases from leading startups and digital natives
October 7, 2025
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/150-startup-ai-use-cases-gen-ai-header.max-2000x2000.png
Darren Mowry
VP, Global Startups, Google Cloud

Tune in: Gemini at Work
Join Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian for Gemini at Work.

Save event.
We recently hosted our first-ever AI Builders Forum, where we gathered with hundreds of the top founders, VCs, advisors, researchers, and teams powering the startups who are building the future with AI. And now, this week, many of us are together again in San Francisco for Tech Week.

A big reason for us to gather with our peers and the next generation of groundbreaking companies is that at Google Cloud, we’ve always worked to provide companies with the very same tools and infrastructure that power Google’s own services and drive our continued growth. In recent years, we have been able to take that to an entirely new level, making our leading generative AI technology available to even the youngest startups.

During the AI Builders Forum, we showcased the work of dozens of startups who have taken that technology in new and exciting directions. There’s so many more hard at work with Google Cloud that we wanted to highlight as many as we could. Here, we’ve gathered 150 to be exact, breaking them out by the sectors and specialties in which they’re creating exciting new offerings that are changing the way we work, create, collaborate, and cure.

For those looking to join their ranks, we encourage you to join our Google for Startups Cloud program, with access to valuable credits and advice from Google experts and experienced VCs. And when it comes to the especially hot segment of AI agents, we’ve just introduced our Startup Technical Guide: AI Agents. It’s an in-depth collection of best practices and step-by-step guidance for building and scaling agentic AI.

We hope this list serves as inspiration for your own work — and that you’ll find yourself being recognized soon enough, too. All it takes is the right AI, the right partners, a good team, and a great idea.

And if you're looking for even more inspiration, check out our freshly updated list of 1,001 AI use cases (including these ones) from across industries and around the globe.

https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/1_150-startup-ai-use-cases-ai-coding-dev.max-2000x2000.png
Arize AI, an AI agent and engineering platform, partners with Google Cloud to help organizations successfully develop, evaluate, and observe their generative AI applications. The Arize AX platform seamlessly integrates with Vertex AI models and runs on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), which allows a very lean operations team to easily scale services and provide deep visibility into every layer of AI systems.
Augment Code, an AI coding assistant, integrated Anthropic’s Claude 3.5 Sonnet via Vertex AI to power its codebase chat feature. This delivered an instant improvement to chat performance after quick implementation, enhancing security and allowing customers to build and troubleshoot code faster.
Aviator, an engineering productivity platform, uses Google Kubernetes Engine, Vertex AI, and Gemini to scale its engineering productivity platform to thousands of users while accelerating the development of new generative AI features.
Cursor is an AI-powered code editor that integrates advanced AI features like autonomous agents and codebase-aware chat. It aims to create a highly effective human-AI programmer by automating tasks, understanding entire codebases, and accelerating development velocity, using models like Gemini and Anthropic's Claude on Google Cloud's Vertex AI.
Get started
As evidenced by these 150 startup stories, the only limitation in the modern era is your imagination. By choosing the Google Cloud ecosystem to power your innovation, you have access to today's best AI, infrastructure, and a platform that de-risks your journey while accelerating your growth.

No matter where you are with AI adoption, we’re here to help: Get up to $350,000 USD in cloud credits with the Google for Startups Cloud Program, or contact our Startup team.

Get in touch.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/startup_summit_2024.max-2500x2500.max-600x600.jpg
DeepSource, a platform for code quality and security, leverages Gemini and Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) to help developers automatically analyze and remediate code. The platform uses Gemini-powered AI agents for its Autofix™ remediation engine, which increases the accuracy of its static analysis and provides automated fixes. Running on GKE, DeepSource can automatically scale to process tens of millions of lines of code per day, reducing operational costs and accelerating time to market for over 6,000 companies.
Factory AI, a platform for agent-driven software development, accelerates engineering by unifying context from sources like GitHub and Jira to delegate tasks like feature development and migrations. It uses Gemini 2.5 Flash for data ingestion and Gemini 2.5 Pro for advanced code/document generation.
Fireworks AI, a generative AI platform, uses Google Kubernetes Engine and Compute Engine to run its fast and efficient inference engine. This enables the company to process over 140 billion tokens daily, offering customers high uptime and throughput with lower latency and costs.
Lovable, an AI software engineer, leverages Google Cloud's Vertex AI to deploy and unify its core language models, including Gemini and Anthropic's models. This unique orchestration enables users to create complete, full-stack web applications from plain English descriptions, effectively cutting the time required for prototype development from weeks to minutes and app development from months to hours.
Naologic, an AI application platform, uses Gemini APIs, Google Kubernetes Engine , and MongoDB Atlas on Google Cloud to build apps on top of legacy ERPs. The solution delivers fast query responses regardless of complexity, enabling powerful, natural-language chat and scaling for complex AI workloads like RAG and image search.
Qodo addresses critical code quality concerns with an agentic platform that works within existing developer workflows. Qodo integrates into Vertex AI Model Garden and provides automated pull request reviews at no cost to open-source projects.
Resolve AI, an always-on AI SRE, autonomously investigates incidents and helps run production systems using code, infrastructure, and observability data. With the intelligence and performance of Gemini on Vertex AI, Resolve AI improves MTTR, reliability, and engineering velocity for its customers.
Sieve, an AI research lab focused on video data, builds multimodal AI systems to automate dataset creation, improve data quality, and provide relevant metadata that powers frontier model training. Sieve uses Vertex AI for large-scale video processing, content moderation, and indexing, including tasks like text recognition, captioning, and enrichment.
Systalyze, an enterprise AI deployment platform, reduces the cost and complexity of AI. Through a partnership with Google Cloud, it reduces deployment costs by up to 90% and accelerates fine-tuning, inference, and agentic AI by 2–15x, while keeping data fully private and secure.
Turbopuffer, a startup offering serverless vector and full-text search, uses Google Cloud Storage, Google Kubernetes Engine, and Google Compute Engine to help AI businesses overcome the high costs and complexity of traditional database architectures. ​Its solution has reduced AI database cost by up to 90% for customers, manages over 1 trillion documents, and handles more than 10 million writes and 10,000 queries every second.
Vercel democratizes access to AI models through its AI SDK and AI Gateway, making it seamless for developers to integrate agentic capabilities into their applications. By providing unified access to leading models like Google's Gemini through a single interface, Vercel has enabled teams to build AI-powered features faster and more reliably.
VESSL AI, an MLOps platform, uses Google Cloud to accelerate AI model development and reduce costs for its users. By leveraging Google Kubernetes Engine, VESSL AI can dynamically scale ML workloads, helping users create AI models up to four times faster and realize up to 80% savings on cloud expenditures. The platform's integration with Vertex AI provides users with access to powerful models and AutoML solutions, further streamlining the MLOps lifecycle.
Windsurf provides an AI-powered code completion and generation tool for developers. Their AI integrates directly into IDEs, offering suggestions, generating code, and refactoring existing code. Windsurf uses Gemini 2.5 Pro to power its coding assistance IDE, and to support integrations with Cognition’s Devin AI.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/2-150-startup-ai-use-cases-healthcare-life.max-2000x2000.png
Atropos Health, a healthcare data analytics company, optimized its GENEVA OS to work with Google Cloud’s Healthcare Data Engine (HDE) and BigQuery. This enables customers to efficiently and securely convert data into valuable insights and evidence.
Cerebra AI develops AI software for analyzing non-contrast CT (NCCT) scans, with a focus on early stroke and cancer detection. It fine-tunes MedGemma on NCCT images and leverages Gemini's few-shot generalization capabilities to rapidly adapt the model for various diagnostic tasks.
CitiusTech, a global Healthcare technology services firm, uses Google Cloud to improve patient experience, reduce administrative burden on clinical staff, and save costs for healthcare systems. The company has developed an AI search solution using Vertex AI to efficiently connect patients with the right specialists and automate critical workflows.
Congruence Therapeutics, a computationally driven biotechnology company, uses its proprietary platform, Revenir, to build a pipeline of small molecule correctors. The platform identifies novel allosteric and cryptic pockets in proteins to rescue aberrant function.
CoVet is an AI assistant built by veterinary professionals, for veterinary professionals, that uses Gemini, Cloud Functions, and other solutions to help veterinary teams automate administrative work, save hours every day, and refocus on what matters most: exceptional patient care.
Digital Diagnostics, a healthcare diagnostics company, uses Google Cloud’s secure infrastructure to enhance the reach of LumineticsCore, its AI-powered diagnostic tool for diabetic retinopathy. This approach protects sensitive health data and ensures patient privacy and regulatory compliance.
DNAstack, a leading genomics data management and analysis platform, leverages Google Cloud’s scalable infrastructure and advanced analytics tools to accelerate research and discovery in personalized medicine.
Evogene uses Google Cloud and Vertex AI to replace life sciences' costly "spray and pray" molecular discovery — testing millions of molecules hoping to stumble into effective ones — with their computational platform. They now process 40 billion molecules versus previous millions, while using Vertex AI to develop a cutting-edge small-molecule foundation model that dramatically accelerates drug discovery timelines.
GenBio AI, a computational biology company, uses Google Cloud to power six specialized AI models in developing AI-driven digital organism simulators. These models simulate biological programming to address critical challenges in medicine and biology.
Immunai tackles drug development's decade-long timeline with AMICA, the world's largest immune-focused single-cell database containing hundreds of millions of cells. Using Google Cloud GPU clusters, they train models that transform complex immune mechanisms into actionable recommendations for 30+ biopharmaceutical partners.
Infinitus, one of the most trusted agentic healthcare communications platforms, automates clinical and administrative conversations at scale. Our AI agents powered by Gemini's multimodal capabilities have completed over 5x more conversations than any other solution with payors, patients, and providers to drive revenue and improve health outcomes
iSono Health, a medical imaging company, developed a Virtual Sonographer, an intelligent, automated 3D Ultrasound platform powered by Google Cloud AI. The platform brings breast imaging directly to the point of care, providing fast, accessible, and repeatable imaging.
Menten AI, a biotechnology company, uses Google Cloud’s high-performance compute and machine learning capabilities to accelerate the development of peptide therapeutics. This allows the company to rapidly design and optimize novel drug candidates.
Moonwalk Bio, a preclinical-stage biotechnology company, leverages epigenetic biology and AI to pioneer new medicines for obesity and cardiometabolic disease. Their platform determines the causal relationships between genes and disease pathways for therapeutic targeting.
Pear Health Labs, a health and fitness AI platform, develops personalized interventions to prevent chronic conditions. It powers recommendations, content search, and dynamic audio coaching. It uses Vertex AI Voice Generation, Vector Search in BigQuery, and the engineering team leverages Gemini Code Assist.
Sami, a tech-enabled health insurance company in Brazil, built its entire infrastructure on Google Cloud from day one. The company uses AI tools such as Gemini, Notebook LM, and Vertex AI to transform healthcare delivery and accelerate critical processes like prescription validation to seconds. Sami enables information flow across its partners, delivering high-quality, accessible healthcare at scale.
SandboxAQ is expanding its usage of Google Cloud and running a new AI drug discovery simulation platform on Google Cloud.
Sully.ai, a healthcare AI company, has built an app store for AI agents designed specifically for healthcare professionals. The platform provides support to clinicians on administrative tasks, so they can focus on patients.
Tali.ai is the leading medical AI scribe platform, designed to reduce the administrative burden of clinicians. Integrated with multiple EMRs across the U.S. and Canada, it leverages Google’s Vertex and Gemini models to automate clinical note-taking during patient encounters and extract key insights.
Think Research, a provider of knowledge-based digital health software solutions, uses Google Cloud’s scalable infrastructure and analytics tools to power its platform. This enables the company to deliver more efficient patient care and improve health outcomes.
Ubie, a healthcare-focused startup founded in Japan, is using Gemini models via Google Cloud to power its physician assistance tool.
Ufonia, a clinical AI company, helps physicians deliver care by using AI to automate clinical consultations with patients. Google Cloud’s full AI stack, including infrastructure, models on Vertex AI Model Garden, BigQuery, and Google Kubernetes Engine, powers its platform by using AI to automate clinical consultations with patients. It is using Google Cloud’s full AI stack to power its platform, including infrastructure, models on Vertex AI Model Garden, BigQuery, and GKE.
Via Scientific, a bioinformatics company, partners with Google Cloud to deliver Via Foundry, an enterprise-grade platform that uses Gemini and Vertex AI to make the drug discovery process more efficient. The platform transforms complex biological data into actionable insights that can accelerate discoveries.
Virgo Surgical, a medical video solutions provider, uses Google Cloud Storage and Google Kubernetes Engine to host and process over 1.75 petabytes of video data. This data has been used to create EndoDINO, an AI foundation model for endoscopy that achieves high performance in medical imaging applications.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/3-150-startup-ai-use-cases-agentic-ai.max-2000x2000.png
Gobii provides AI agents that automate complex web tasks like forms and workflows directly in the browser. To power these intelligent agents, Gobii leverages Google Cloud, utilizing Vertex AI and our scalable GKE infrastructure.
Hebbia, a legal and financial research company, integrated Gemini models into its Matrix platform to help organizations build AI agents capable of working across all of their data.
LiveX, customer service AI agents, uses Google Kubernetes Engine Autopilot and NVIDIA GPUs to power its platform. These technologies reduced total cost of ownership by 50% and operational costs by 66% while supporting an 85% reduction in customer support costs for one of its clients.
Parallel is using Gemini models to power new products including an API for AI agents to perform high-value tasks using web data.
Qualia Clear is an agentic system that transforms real estate closings by automating manual title & escrow workflows. It uses tool calling, Gemini 2.5 Flash & Pro, and Google Agent Development Kit to process emails and documents and simplify reporting, improving efficiency and customer service.
Replicant automates customer conversations for enterprise brands using voice and chat AI agents that replicate the expertise of your very best agents. Gemini helps Replicant deliver consistent service 24/7 that deploys quickly, scales effortlessly and continuously improves to boost ROI and CX.
Skyvern helps companies automate browser-based workflows with AI. Skyvern uses Large Language Models (LLMs) like Gemini 2.5 Pro and computer vision, to interact with websites, enabling it to automate tasks like filling out forms, procuring materials, and downloading invoices. Skyvern's AI agents can adapt to website changes, making automation more robust.
Torq uses agentic AI to automate the entire security operations lifecycle through Socrates, an AI SOC analyst that coordinates specialized agents. Running on Google Cloud's infrastructure, teams achieve 90% automation of tier-1 analyst tasks auto-remediated without human involvement, 95% decrease in manual tasks and10x faster response times.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/4-150-startup-ai-use-cases-business-profes.max-2000x2000.png
Altumatim, a legal tech startup, uses a platform powered by Gemini on Vertex AI to analyze millions of documents for eDiscovery. This accelerates the process from months to hours, improves accuracy to over 90%, and enables attorneys to focus on building compelling legal arguments.
Anara, a generative AI research assistant, helps users find and understand scientific documents with verifiable AI summaries and insights. It uses Google Cloud's scalable infrastructure, AI Studio, and Cloud Functions to power its models and data processing for a global user base.
Clavata.ai delivers an integrated AI governance and safety platform with intelligent, multi-modal, real-time evaluation engine powered by Gemini. Our tools enable proactive policy enforcement, dynamic debugging, iteration, observability, and problem prevention.
Harvey, a legal AI company, uses Gemini 2.5 Pro on Vertex AI to automate complex document reviews, a major pain point in the legal industry. The platform provides domain-specific AI that can reason over hundreds of pages of materials, enabling legal professionals to maximize efficiency and focus on strategic work.
Inspira, a legal tech company, tackles the time-intensive challenge of legal document analysis by providing lawyers with an AI-powered solution built on Google Cloud. Leveraging Gemini, Vertex AI, and BigQuery, Inspira's platform automates legal document search, analysis, and drafting to reduce workflow times by 80%, allowing lawyers to find answers and relevant decisions in minutes or hours instead of weeks.
Instalily uses Google Cloud with Gemini 2.5 and Vertex AI to power InstaWorkers that transform sales, service, and operations. At a leading field service provider, InstaWorkers cut the technician’s diagnosis time from 15 minutes to under 10 seconds, lowered serving costs by 98 percent, and drove a 99 percent improvement in end-to-end workflow speed.
Markups.ai, an AI contract negotiation agent, turns a days-long human legal review into a minute(s) automated process. By simply emailing a contract, clients receive customized revisions and analysis almost instantly. Gemini 2.5 Pro enabled us to go from handling only first revisions of NDAs, to any revision of any contract (MSAs, DPAs, etc.).
monday.com, a work management platform trusted by more than 245,000 customers worldwide, leverages Veo to produce training videos, social content, and internal communications in a fraction of the time — empowering all employees, not just designers, to move faster and focus on impact.
NoBroker, a real estate platform, uses its ConvoZen AI, powered by Gemini and L4 GPUs, to automate customer support across multiple Indian languages. The platform processes 10,000 hours of recordings daily, with AI agents projected to handle 25-40% of future calls and save customers $1 billion annually.
ObraJobs, a job platform, connects candidates with relevant opportunities, streamline the hiring process, and deliver personalized recommendations for both job seekers and employers. Obra uses Vertex AI to power candidate matching and personalized job recommendations, supported by Cloud Storage, Cloud Run, Cloud Scheduler, Cloud Tasks, and Firestore.
Provenbase has built its talent recruitment tool for businesses on Google Cloud and is now powering its transformative Deep Search for talent feature using Google Cloud AI.
Story, an intellectual property startup that powers licensing and monetization services, is working with Google Cloud’s web3 services and infrastructure to bring new capabilities to developers on its platform.
Upwork, the world's human and AI-powered work marketplace, connects businesses with independent professionals. By leveraging Vertex AI Text to Speech API, Upwork delivers faster, more accurate talent matching and hiring efficiency for clients and freelancers.
Wotter, an employee engagement platform, uses a Gemini-powered smart assistant and Google Cloud's robust AI capability to provide real-time insights into employee sentiment. It accurately predicts flight risks and offers actionable "Wott-if" scenarios, enabling leaders to build a data-driven people strategy.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/5-150-startup-ai-use-cases-manufacturing-i.max-2000x2000.png
Bynry's SMART360 leverages Google Cloud’s robust infrastructure to empower small and mid-sized utilities to enhance operational efficiency and customer satisfaction.
Kraftblock, a green tech company, uses Google Cloud Compute Engine to run simulations for its high-temperature thermal energy storage systems, helping energy-intensive industries like steel and ceramics decarbonize. This support helps the green tech startup optimize its solution and scale faster.
Labellerr, a data labeling engine, uses Vertex AI and Cloud Run to automate annotation and smart QA to help ML teams process millions of images and thousands of hours of videos in just a few weeks.
Physical Intelligence recently partnered with Google Cloud to support model development, using our secure and scalable AI infrastructure.
tulanā, an intelligent decision support provider, has a highly customizable platform that uses forecasting, optimization, simulation, and AI to help enterprise clients make better decisions across supply chains and physical infrastructure. tulanā is using Cloud Run to horizontally scale its optimization workloads, Gemini for intelligent ETL processes, and Cloud SQL and Big Query to store customer data.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/6-150-startup-ai-use-cases-finaicial-servi.max-2000x2000.png
Albo, a Mexican neobank, uses Gemini models to power its "Albot" AI chatbot that provides 24/7 financial advice, customer onboarding, and support to millions of first-time banking users. The platform advances financial inclusion while streamlining regulatory compliance and improving operational efficiency.
Bud Financial, a data intelligence provider focused on banking clients, leverages DataStax Astra DB on Google Cloud with Gemini. The platform enables ultra-fast processing of complex financial data, helping clients reduce fraud by over 90% and shortening the time required to access critical data analytics from weeks to minutes.
Causal, a financial planning platform, uses Cloud SQL and Gemini models to power its data foundation and accelerate innovation. By offloading database management, the company built an AI-powered wizard that helps users connect data, analyze patterns, and generate financial models in just five minutes.
CERC, a financial infrastructure company, manages more than 500 million daily transactions using Databricks, BigQuery, and Gemini. This increased processing capacity by 10x without adding to the workforce, allowing the company to process millions in revenue forecasts in just two minutes and accelerate analytics for customers.
DataCurve, a frontier coding data analytics provider, addresses complex data challenges by combining Web3 and generative AI on Google Cloud. Its platform uses AI agents for deep data analysis and Web3 for data authenticity, delivering insights that help customers take action and improve engagement.
eToro, a global trading and investing platform, has pioneered a groundbreaking approach to marketing by using Veo to create advertising campaigns. This enables eToro to rapidly generate professional-quality, culturally specific video content across the global markets it serves, which would traditionally require extensive production timelines and significant budgets.
Fiscal.ai is reinventing financial data infrastructure. Its AI-native platform transforms unstructured public filings into clean, standardized data in minutes, replacing the slow, error-prone legacy of manual aggregation and delivering the mission-critical insights that today's top investors demand.
Rogo, a generative AI platform built for the financial industry, uses Google Cloud solutions like Dataflow, Spanner, and Vertex AI to automate complex research and analysis for the world's leading investment banks and private equity firms. Gemini 2.5 Flash enabled the platform to cut AI modeling time from months to hours and reduce hallucination rates from 34.1% to 3.9%.
Stax AI, a retirement administration platform, uses Google Cloud's generative AI and MongoDB to automate data extraction from complex financial documents. The solution processes thousands of brokerage statements in minutes, not hours, helping administrators respond to client inquiries and meet compliance deadlines in a fraction of the time.
Stream, offers financial tools to employers and employees and is using Gemini models to handle more than 80% of its internal customer inquiries, including questions about pay dates, balances, and more.
WealthAPI, a German fintech company, uses DataStax Astra DB on Google Cloud with Gemini to deliver real-time financial insights to millions of users. The platform's scalability allows it to analyze hundreds of thousands of transactions per second and has reduced response times by 90% for its customers.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/7-150-startup-ai-use-cases-design-creativi.max-2000x2000.png
Afooga, an AI-powered content experimentation factory, enables businesses to generate, test, and distribute content at massive scale from a single hypothesis, automatically optimizing across TikTok, Meta, YouTube, and more. Afooga leverages Vertex AI and Veo for generative video capabilities, and is architected entirely on Google Cloud.
Alson AI, a creative platform provider, uses Veo and Gemini to power its creativity platform that helps creators turn ideas into illustrated books and animations, reducing production time from months to minutes and costs from thousands of dollars to $25.
Cartwheel, a generative animation platform, helps users tell stories faster and more creatively. Its tool uses Gemini Flash for character creation prompts, Imagen for reference-image creation for 3D character development, and Veo 3 for video-to-animation input control that makes output editable by artists.
ComfyUI, an open-source engine for visual AI, helps creators prototype and automate media generation with pre-set models and more than 20,000 extensions. The platform integrates Gemini 2.5 and Veo 3 for multimodal creation and runs on Google Cloud infrastructure.
Connected-Stories, an AI creative platform, uses Gemini and Imagen on Vertex AI to help brands overcome manual content personalization challenges. The platform's AI creative assistant analyzes briefs and turns them into sophisticated strategies, enabling brands to create personalized content at scale and optimize campaigns in real-time.
fal, a generative media platform for developers, accelerates generative AI model inference to improve the speed with which content is generated. The fal team is working with Google Cloud to leverage its Veo 2 technology to help its users create videos with realistic motion and high-quality output.
HeyGen, an AI-powered video generation platform, makes creating, translating, and personalizing high-quality videos simple and accessible. HeyGen's core product leverages Gemini 2.5 Pro, Flash, and Flash-Lite to streamline content creation. With one prompt, HeyGen automates video planning, intelligently analyzes user-generated footage, and optimizes content through advanced visual and audio processing.
Higgsfield.ai, a generative AI video startup, uses its foundational model on Google Cloud and Vertex AI to enable video creation, helping smaller companies create realistic videos faster and more cost-effectively compared to traditional methods.
Krea.ai, a creative suite of AI tools, offers real-time image/video generation and personalized model training for artists and marketers. It integrates with Google Cloud, including models as Veo3 and Nano Banana, to provide access to advanced models, enabling users to create high-quality ads, product photos, and game assets.
Mosaic lets you build and run multimodal video-editing AI agents. A canvas of creative tools becomes your building blocks, enabling simultaneous edits and many versions on autopilot—powered by Gemini 2.5 Pro’s video understanding and Google Cloud (Storage + Cloud Run) for scalable pipelines.
Nim.video is an AI-first platform for instant short-form video generation from a single prompt. The multimodal platform uses top generative models, including Veo3 and Veo3 Fast, for text-to-video synthesis. It runs on Vertex AI, enabling scaled experiments and orchestration of services like speech recognition and TTS.
OpenArt empowers social media creators and SMBs to turn ideas into stunning videos in minutes - complete with motion, music, and a narrative arc in one click. Powered by Gemini image models and Google’s Veo3 video model, it makes creating viral posts and brand content fast and effortless.
Photoroom, provides generative AI photo-editing and design capabilities to consumers and businesses, uses Veo 2 and Imagen 3 to improve the quality of its offering and accelerate its development.
Prodia offers APIs to integrate generative AI into creative tools. Built on Google Cloud, Prodia relies on GPUs & DWS to serve the fastest text-to-image and instruct-to-edit models in the world, as verified by Artificial Analysis benchmarks. Prodia uses Veo 3 and Nano Banana to further power multimodal AI features.
Reclip, a "real" social media application, leverages Veo and Imagen to create short, engaging animated videos from real time audio clips, captured by their proprietary app. Consumers love sharing these precious, funny and real "Reclips" with their friends and family.
Scope3 is enhancing its ad-tech platform with AI-powered features, using Gemini 2.5 Flash to offer features like real-time content classification, ensuring content is aligned with brand preference.
Spot AI, a video AI agent builder, leverages Google Cloud PubSub to turn security cameras into intelligent agents to enhance safety, security, and operations without needing AI/ML teams.
Wondercraft, an AI-powered content studio that helps users create engaging audio ads, podcasts and more, is leveraging Gemini models for some of its core functionalities and will soon release a Veo2 integration.
Writer, an enterprise generative AI platform, builds and trains its 17-plus LLMs on Google Cloud using Google Kubernetes Engine and high-performance NVIDIA GPUs. This allows the company to scale efficiently and cost-effectively, delivering fast, low-latency answers for enterprise customers who demand accurate and on-brand AI-generated content.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/8-150-startup-ai-use-cases-marketing-media.max-2000x2000.png
AndesML, a retail media platform, helps large enterprises launch and monetize their own ad networks by showing the right ad to the right customer at the right time. Built on Vertex AI, BigQuery, and Gemini models, the AndesML platform has delivered a 30% performance lift in customer campaigns, accelerated production time by more than 30 days, and reduced operational costs.
Audiomob, an in-game audio ad platform, replaced its legacy business intelligence system with BigQuery and Looker to gain real-time insights from its global data. This move enabled the company to handle billions of monthly transactions, contributing to triple-digit yearly revenue growth and significant savings in engineering time.
Hedra, an end-to-end marketing creation platform, is designed to generate high-quality content at scale. Hedra Studio combines its proprietary multimodal models with other leading models like Veo and Imagen, enabling users to produce polished marketing content for any use case. Hedra’s Live Avatars use Gemini to deliver dynamic, real-time interactive video experiences.
Inworld, an AI platform for builders of consumer applications, uses Google Cloud and Gemini to cost-effectively handle tens of millions of concurrent users with response times measured in milliseconds, meeting strict requirements for quality, cost control, and security.
Koolio.ai helps creators produce high-quality podcasts and audio content. Koolio.ai integrates Gemini, Lyria, and Veo to power features such as AI-generated dialogue, accurate transcription, intelligent sound effects and music selection, and audio enhancement, streamlining the entire audio creation workflow from concept to final production.
MNTN uses Google Cloud to power its Connected TV ad platform, making TV campaigns as measurable as search or social. With AI-driven tools like MNTN Matched and Security Command Center, MNTN scales creative and targeting securely and at speed.
Napster, a metaverse company, is building a no-code 3D e-commerce platform on Google Cloud using Vertex AI and Gemini. This supported 20-85% infrastructure cost reductions and saved over 3,600 developer hours, making immersive 3D web experiences accessible and affordable for its customers.
Potrero Labs, a creator-focused platform, has launched Jams, an AI-first video social network empowering authentic self-expression. Its platform simplifies video creation, allowing users to record short videos and let Jams enhance them. Jams offers a simple UI with a variety of models under the hood, including Gemini 2.5 Pro for script creation, multi-modal Gemini for video analysis, and Veo 3 for backgrounds, b-rolls, and audio.
Producer.ai (formerly Riffusion), an AI music platform, trains generative music models and builds products that empower anyone to create the music they imagine. "The Producer" music collaboration agent helps users create original, studio-quality songs from text, audio, or visual prompts. Gemini on Vertex AI assists with prompt augmentation and data pipelines, while Vertex AI APIs offer access to advanced multimodal models for experimentation.
Rembrand is an AI-powered advertising platform that facilitates in-video product placements for content creators and advertisers on social media and connected TV. Powered by Google Cloud's AI Infrastructure, Rembrand enables brands to genuinely connect with audiences without disrupting the content.
Satisfi Labs will begin using Gemini models to power a new agentic platform for hundreds of customers in sports, entertainment, and tourism. The Agentic Platform delivers specialized agents for guest experiences, ticketing, on-site, safety, and merchandise tuned by industry experts to help live experience businesses sell more, service faster, and gain real-time insights from every guest conversation
Scorpion, a digital marketing company for SMBs, uses Veo to scale video ad production. By integrating this technology into its toolkit, Scorpion makes creating professional videos for websites and advertising faster and more accessible for all businesses.
StatusPro builds NFL virtual reality experiences for gaming and training and is now developing its newest game on Google Cloud, including a new Gemini-powered in-game coach.
Synthesia, an AI video enterprise platform, helps businesses create instructional videos for employee training, customer support, sales enablement, and product marketing. The company is using Veo 3 to contextually adapt visuals to the content delivered by its AI avatars and voices.
Tinuiti, a performance marketing agency, used Google's VertexAI to develop an AI-powered service that develops and optimizes ad copy to increase performance. The tool embodies a philosophy of maximizing growth by minimizing waste, and a recent experiment showed significant ROAS performance improvements compared to human-curated copy.
Toonsutra, an India-based webcomic platform, is using Google’s Gemini AI to go global. By making stories accessible in regional languages and adding Lyria 2 for music, Gemini for voices, and Veo 3 for animation, they’re creating next-gen immersive comics.
Velin.ai, a content creation platform for small businesses, offers an AI agent that explains the content and its underlying strategic implications while acting as a unified content workspace. Gemini 2.5 drafts everything from scripts to social campaigns, while Imagen 4 and Veo 3 generate aligned visuals and video clips, ensuring a consistent brand narrative across all content.
Visla is an AI-powered video creation platform that helps businesses and creators produce pro videos in minutes. Using Google’s Imagen 4, Gemini Flash Image 2.5, Veo 3, and Visla’s AI Video Agent with Avatars, it adapts visuals, narration, and automates polished content for learning, training, and marketing.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/9-150-startup-ai-use-cases-education.max-2000x2000.png
LitLab.ai, a reading platform, leverages Veo3 and Vertex AI to generate personalized, curriculum-aligned stories and provide real-time oral reading analysis. They create decodable content and employ voice recognition for instant teacher feedback on student fluency.
Savvy revolutionizes learning by automatically generating flashcards and quizzes from PDFs, notes, videos, and podcasts. As students answer, Savvy leverages Gemini to dynamically grade their answers, providing instant feedback and personalized learning.
Studyhall AI, an AI research platform, graduated from Google Cloud’s UK Growth Accelerator program and built a mobile application that uses Gemini models to help coach students on reading, writing, and exam prep.
Subject.com, an AI-powered platform for grades 6-12, blends cinematic storytelling with superintelligent AI so students and teachers never get stuck. VertexAI, CloudSQL & BigQuery power Subject’s teacher assistant tool Spark, instant feedback, "ExplainThis" text simplifier, 24/7 Homework Helper, and personalized learning tied to student interests.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/10-150-startup-ai-use-cases-retail.max-2000x2000.png
Deeli AI, an AI-powered platform, helps companies discover and evaluate emerging technologies to make informed investment decisions. The company builds its product and data pipeline on various services such as GCE, Cloud Run, and Dataflow, and uses models from the Vertex AI Model Garden.
Nectar's AI-driven community agents with Gemini to handle customer conversations on social platforms, influencer marketing, and real-time product feedback at scale for leading brands & retailers. By transforming unstructured social data into actionable insights and powering customer conversations, Nectar helps brands deepen relationships and drive measurable growth.
Simbe, a multimodal, retail-focused computer vision company, built its AI-powered Store Intelligence platform on Google Cloud. By deploying autonomous robots and sensors, Simbe provides real-time insights into shelf inventory and price accuracy. This helps retailers reduce out-of-stock instances, improve pricing and promotion execution to the high 90% range, and achieve a 4x return on investment within 90 days.
Zapia AI, a retail technology company, uses AI agents to support millions of users with product discovery, local business searches, and purchase assistance, resulting in over 90% positive user feedback. Its multi-agent orchestration is powered by Gemini to improve agent reasoning, reduce latency, and lower operational costs.
Zazzle is a global platform for custom products and designs made on demand. Zazzle uses Gemini ADK and CCaaS to facilitate chat-based product discovery and enhance customer experience, making it easier to find the right designs across a wide range of products.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/11-150-startup-ai-use-cases-security-respo.max-2000x2000.png
Aptori, an AI security company, detects vulnerabilities in AI-generated code, prioritizes risks, and automates code fixes in real-time. Aptori uses Gemini to analyze code for security weaknesses and generate context-aware fixes, integrating its AI Security Engineer directly into developer workflows.
Chainguard, a software supply chain security company, uses Google Cloud Run and Google Kubernetes Engine to provide developers with secure open-source building blocks. Its serverless architecture streamlines operations and product development, reducing infrastructure management costs and enabling them to scale effortlessly to meet increasing user demand.
Eon, a cloud data protection platform, uses Google Cloud Storage and BigQuery to transform backups into AI-ready data lakes. This allows its customers to eliminate fragmented data silos, reduce secondary storage costs by up to 98%, and improve data recovery times by up to 90%.
Galileo, an AI observability and evaluation platform for building trustworthy AI applications, addresses the critical challenge of mitigating LLM unpredictability and hallucinations. Using Gemini to build its "evaluation agents" and running on a scalable Google Cloud infrastructure with NVIDIA GPUs, Galileo provides a holistic "trust layer" for reliable AI. This has enabled customers to de-risk over 1,000 AI applications, while go-to-market support from the Google for Startups Cloud Program helps Galileo accelerate growth and unlock new opportunities.
Prediction Guard is using Google Cloud services like Confidential Computing and Vertex AI to support its platform for added gen AI safety.
Resistant AI, an AI-powered security company, uses Google Cloud to build solutions that combat fraud in financial services documentation and workflows. Running on Google Cloud infrastructure, the company's specialized document fraud detectors scrutinize financial documents in 500 different ways, helping to protect automated workflows like those using Google's Document AI from sophisticated financial crime.
Specular, an offensive cybersecurity platform, builds AI agents using Gemini 2.5 Pro to automate attack surface management and penetration testing. Their platform automates traditional workflows to identify, assess, and remediate cybersecurity, helping enterprises proactively prioritize and respond to threats.
Wyze Labs is rolling out new AI-powered anomaly detection features for its security camera systems, powered by Google’s vision AI tool.
Zefr, a global leader in responsible AI, powers Fortune 500 brand advertising with safety and suitability on platforms like YouTube and TikTok. Using patented Cognitive AI with Gemini Flash and Vertex AI, Zefr analyzes video, image, audio, and text to deliver trusted, scalable solutions.
https://storage.googleapis.com/gweb-cloudblog-publish/images/12-150-startup-ai-use-cases-analytics-othe.max-2000x2000.png
aSim, an AI-powered mobile app development tool, allows you to quickly generate, share, and discover mini-apps. Users can instantly generate an app from a prompt, leveraging APIs/LLMs like Google Maps and Gemini, as well as image and video generation from Nano Banana and Veo 3.
Bud Financial, a data intelligence provider focused on banking clients, leverages DataStax Astra DB on Google Cloud with Gemini. The platform enables ultra-fast processing of complex financial data, helping clients reduce fraud by over 90% and shortening the time required to access critical data analytics from weeks to minutes.
Bynry's SMART360 leverages Google Cloud’s robust infrastructure to empower small and mid-sized utilities to enhance operational efficiency and customer satisfaction.
Citylitics, a predictive intelligence platform, transforms public infrastructure investment for municipalities, utilities, and engineering firms. By automating data processing with Dataflow and Cloud Run, it cuts analysis time by 71% and boosts data sources by 400%, helping customers proactively identify and win new business.
ContextQA, an Agentic AI software testing platform, enables accurate, user-centric test automation from development start. The platform uses Gemini models to compare application behavior with expected outcomes, adapting automatically to changes.
Flockx, an AI-powered event app, migrated to Google Cloud to support its growth and control costs. Using Google Kubernetes Engine and autoscaling on Compute Engine, the company accelerated product development and successfully demonstrated scalability by processing over 100,000 AI runs in a single weekend.
Macro, an AI productivity platform, uses Gemini to modernize knowledge work by offering a unified workspace with features like multi-document chat and editable mind maps. The platform simplifies complex workflows and scales with demand for over 125,000 users in legal, finance, and education, while offering enterprise-grade security, data privacy, and compliance.
MaestroQA, a conversation analytics data platform, is leveraging Gemini to enhance its AI-powered conversation analytics. By using Gemini, MaestroQA is improving its ability to analyze customer interactions across every channel, providing deeper insights that help businesses boost customer satisfaction and drive growth and retention.
MLtwist, an AI data pipeline services company, processes, transcribes, translates, and labels large, complex data streams for enterprise applications. It uses Gemini and AI Studio for transcription and labeling tasks, saving approximately 63% of the time required to process even highly illegible documents.
Moii.AI, a vision AI startup, uses Gemini and BigQuery to analyze CCTV footage for safety and productivity insights. This approach reduced video review time from days to minutes, saved the company $10,000 monthly on AI processing costs, and doubled its engineering team’s efficiency.
Owl.AI, a sports technology company, delivers AI-powered solutions to professional sports leagues. Their offerings, which include judging and scoring, aim to enhance accuracy, consistency, and eliminate bias. Owl.AI achieves this by leveraging AI models built on Gemini and fine-tuned on Google Cloud to analyze real-time video footage of athletic performances.
Provenbase has built its talent recruitment tool for businesses on Google Cloud and is now powering its transformative Deep Search for talent feature using Google Cloud AI.
SandboxAQ is expanding its usage of Google Cloud and running a new AI drug discovery simulation platform on Google Cloud.
Satlyt, a space compute leader, enables in-orbit AI workloads by orchestrating intersatellite communication and routing. It uses Google Cloud's Kubernetes Engine, Vertex AI, and scalable data infrastructure to deploy AI agents and plans to deploy Google's Gemma models in orbit.
SE3 Labs, a 3D computer vision and AI company, uses Cloud Run to deploy advanced AI model technologies that create "Spatial GPTs," which are essentially AI models that can understand and interact with the world in 3D.
Temporal, a durable execution platform for developers, uses Vertex AI to enhance its customer support operations. The solution provides improved visibility into support trends by automatically categorizing 80% of support tickets, allowing the team to anticipate customer needs and identify new opportunities.